## Machine Learning Solution Categories

- **Classification:** Used to solve problems that can be _classified_ into categories. The output of the model will be a _class_ or _category_. Ex: Stock predictor to Buy, sell, or hold (3 classes/categories), or for images classifying an image as a cat, a mouse, a house, or any number of other class/categories.

- **Regression:** Used to solve problems that require some _constant or continuous output value_. Also termed _discreet_ values, things like the fuel economy of a car (in miles per gallon), or the speed needed to attain orbit insertion for a rocket (e.g. a discreet value like 7.776 km/s).

- **Clustering:** Used in problems where a group of values or group of outputs needs to be discovered or found in the input data. For instance in Document Discovery, you might train your model to group together all of the documents in a _corpus_ related to a specific event, like searching documents related to an earthquake, or to UFO reports. _What the actual clustering model will do, however, is will determine based on patterns in the input data what it is that logically connects or associates one input with other inputs._. Another example would be social media ad targeting: e.g. find all users who are interested in Taylor Swift to sell product X, etc.

- **Dimensionality Reduction:** Looks at the _features_ that are input to the model (also called _'X-variables'_), to _extract **latent** or **significant** features_ from the input data. An example would be feeding a dimensionality reduction model to predict stock movements, which might intake 500 or more features fed into the model (prices, averages, other stock prices, other stock averages, ad infinitum). _The DR model aims to extract the significant or latent features from this huge set of input features, reducing to the most important ones._ Note: _As may be apparent, this step is often used to reduce the number of features that are later fed into the other types of models (clustering, regression, classification)._

## (Review of) Sueprvised and Unsupervised Learning Characteristics

#### Supervised:

- In supervised learning, the _**labels**_ are the tools used to tune or improve the parameters of the model.
- An input variable _$x$_ is _**mapped**_ to an output variable _$y$_
- The job of the supervised learning algorithm is to _learn_ this _mapping function_ (through repeated (but not infinite) cost or accuracy analysis a.k.a. the _Cost_ or _Loss_ function).
- The mapping function will always be _approximate_, but the best approximation will be able to predict new values $\hat y$ for new values of $x$

## Traditional ML Models and Representational ML Models

- Traditional ML Models like _Linear Regression,_ _Support Vector Machine,_ or _Decision Tree_ (among many others) are characterized mainly by the fact their features are selected by the 'expert' or team of experts based on their skill and knowledge in the problem area and in ML algorithms (and when to apply which).
- Representational ML Models like _Deep Neural Network_ are characterized mainly by their ability to learn (independently) about which features or attributes (or patterns) are important or significant.

### Definitions

- Deep Learning: Algorithms that learn (themselves) what features matter.
- Neural Networks: Most common form of deep learning algorithm
- Neurons: Basic building blocks that learn
